#labels Translation,Policy,localize,翻訳,ポリシー
= 概要 =
Joomla.orgによる<a href="http://community.joomla.org/translations/translation-policy.html">Translation and Localization Policy</a> の和訳です。

原文は随時更新されるかもしれません、注意してください。
----

= 「翻訳と地域化の指針」 =

== はじめに ==
Joomlaプロジェクトのビジョンには、「それぞれの言語を使う世界中の人々」が含まれます。Joomlaのコアファイル、ヘルプスクリーン、ドキュメントの翻訳は、多言語対応のための開発チームとの連携などと共にこの目的を達するために役立ちます。この「翻訳と地域化の指針」は、参加するのにやりがいがあって楽しく、さらにユーザからの信頼を維持するための世界規模のコミュニティを創り、このビジョンを具体化するために作成されました。そのビジョンは、「自由、平等、信頼性、コミュニティ、協力、そして使いやすさ」というプロジェクトの核心的な価値観に基づいています。


== 翻訳と地域化の指針 ==
Joomla翻訳チームのみがその成果物をJoomla.orgと関連サイトに掲載し、Joomla翻訳共有リポジトリにホストされます。

Joomla翻訳チームとしての承認と承認の継続は「Joomla翻訳チーム契約」によって規定されます。承認又は翻訳チームの継続の決断はJoomla翻訳コーディネーションチームによってなされ、そのチームは現行のローカル翻訳チームコーディネータから引き抜かれたボランティアメンバによって構成されます。Joomla翻訳コーディネーションチームはJoomlaコアチームの管理下で仕事を行います。

地域の翻訳コーディネータがJoomla翻訳チームフォーラムへのアクセスを認められたときには、「Joomla翻訳チーム契約」に同意したとみなされます。

「Joomla翻訳チーム契約」に同意することで、規約に違反したときはこの契約は取り消されることに同意したことになります。すなわち、
  * その翻訳チームはJoomla翻訳チームフォーラムから除外されます。
  * Joomla.orgと関連サイトの掲載は削除されます。
  * バッジの使用やJoomla翻訳チームと名乗る権利を失います。

== Joomla! Translation Team Agreement ==
*Terms and Conditions for acceptance as a Joomla Translation Team*

  # Copies of all language packs, sample data, and help files shall be deposited on the Joomla Translation Common Repository that the Joomla Translation Coordination Team will manage on Joomlacode.org. All language packs will be available for public download. Joomla Translation Teams are encouraged to live up to the core Joomla Project values of freedom and equality as embodied in the GNU GPL by making their help files and sample data publicly available for download just as the works they are derived from are available.
  # All members of Joomla Translation Teams shall follow the Code of Conduct for Joomla Volunteers at all times.
  # Within specific languages, a spirit of collaboration shall be maintained. If there is already a Joomla Translation Team for a given language, new contributors and teams should seek to cooperate with that team. Existing Joomla Translation Teams must welcome and encourage new contributors.
  # Translation teams shall remain in contact with the Joomla Translation Coordination Team.
  # All Translators shall comply with the Open Source Matters trademark policies on name use, logo use, and domain names (See: http://www.opensourcematters.org/licensing.html) and any other relevant policies.
  # In accepting a Joomla Translation Team for a particular language the Joomla Project does not accept any social, cultural or political claims associated with that language or reject the claims of any other language.
  # All use of the Joomla Translation Team badge shall comply with the translation badge use policy (below) and the Open Source Matters policy for conditional use logos (link).
  # Language packs shall be released under the GNU GPL v2 or later and be distributed at no cost to end users and without requiring registration.
  # All language packs shall be named: `"[ISO name of language]_joomla_lang_[type of package].[joomla version][Eventual pack version]"` where: <ul><li>`[Iso name of language]` = xx-XX  </li><li>`[type of package]`. = site, admin, full</li><li>`[Eventual pack version]` = v2, v3, etc.</li></ul>  example: xx-XX_joomla_lang_full.1.5.8v2.zip
  # Language packs shall be kept up to date with the current releases of Joomla.
  # Online help files shall be reachable through Joomla administrator interface and must be available via the Web at no cost to end users. Help files must be licensed using the Joomla Electronic Documentation License and retain all licensing information.
  # Online help files shall be kept up to date with the current releases of Joomla.
  # Localized distributions shall not include advertising or links for any site other than Joomla.org sites, the Joomla Translation Team site or sites that are included in the core sample data. The sole exception to this is that a links to English resources or content in translations of the core sample data may be replaced with links to specific equivalent content in the relevant language. These may not be in the form of a general link to a local site.
  # Localized distributions may include specially created sample data as long as the tone and messages of the sample data are in accord with the Joomla Project's mission, vision and values and are not detrimental, e.g., harmful or damaging to the value of any of the Joomla Marks, or to the Joomla Project or OSM, its brand integrity, reputation or goodwill, such as by including content that (a) is vulgar, obscene, pornographic, disparaging, defamatory or hateful, (b) includes statements concerning that are libelous, slanderous or otherwise defamatory, or (c) would be considered a criminal offense or would encourage conduct that would be considered a criminal offense or create any civil liability. Requests for modification of sample content made by Open Source Matters must be addressed within five business days.
  # Localized sample content may include menu links to specific relevant resources in the translation language. It shall include a menu link to Joomla.org.
  # Localized distributions shall be released at no cost to end users and without requiring registration.
  # Localized distributions shall be named: "Joomla `[version #]` in X" where X is the official English name of the language corresponding to the ISO code. For example: en-US would be "Joomla 1.5.9 in English (United States)"
  # Localized distributions shall be kept up to date with the current releases of Joomla. When releases reach end of life on Joomlacode.org they shall no longer be available on Joomla Translation Team sites.
  # These terms may be changed by the Joomla Project from time to time. Notification of changes will be published in the Joomla Translation Teams Forum and policies will be posted on the opensourcematters.org Web site.

== Badge Use Policy ==
Joomla Translation Teams may use the Joomla Translation Team badge on their Web sites under certain conditions. These are:

  # The site is non commercial.
  # The site complies with all relevant Open Source Matters policies.
  # The badge must be linked to http://community.joomla.org/translations.html.
  # The site makes it clear that it is not an official site of the Joomla Project.
  # The badge is not altered in any way.

== Licenses ==
  # Translation of the language in the core files ("language packs" and "sample data") are derivative works and must be licensed using the GNU GPL.
  # Translations of the installation files that are contributed for release in the official Joomla core release are derivative works and must be provided under GNU GPL. Copyrights are both Open Source Matters and author's. This work is acknowledged in the main credit file of the Joomla CMS. The XML file for the installation may contain author's name and URL. The description should only contain the name of the language in English or local language.
  # Help screen translations for Joomla 1.5.x and later are governed by the Joomla Electronic Documentation license unless otherwise specified. The license terms and the original copyright attribution must remain unchanged. Translator attribution may be added per screen or globally on the site where the help screens are available online. A link to the JEDL has to be provided on the site.
  # Documentation translations made from the docs.joomla.org English originals are governed by the Joomla Electronic Documentation License unless otherwise specified. Translators may add their authorship. Link to the JEDL should be provided on the site.
  # The following statement must be presented with any localized distribution: "This is an unofficial localized distribution of Joomla. Support of this distribution is only available from the team that created it. It is not warranted by the Joomla Project or Open Source Matters."

 
== Open Source Matters Policies ==
As the non-profit organization that holds the assets of the Joomla Project for the benefit of the Joomla Project and community of users, Open Source Matters has a number of policies that govern use of the Joomla name and logo, and the licensing of Joomla software, and other legal and financial issues. A complete set of these policies ins available at http://opensourcematters.org. It is the responsibility of Joomla Translation Teams to be familar with and comply with all OSM policies

Some of the policies that are relevant for Joomla Translation Teams are:
  * All use of the Joomla logo must be licensed by OSM.
  * All use of the string Joomla in a domain name must be licensed by OSM.
  * Use of the Joomla name or closely related names in business or extension names must be licensed by OSM.
  * License to use the name or logo requires agreement to several points including (but not limited to):

  # Acknowledgement that the trademark for Joomla is exclusively held by Open Source Matters.
  # Agreement that all Joomla extensions distributed from a licensed site will comply with all Joomla Extensions Directory policies and requirements.
  # Agreement to certain standards of quality such as not containing material that could be the cause of civic or criminal legal action.
  # Display of a standard disclaimer similar to:"The Joomla® name is used under limited license from Open Source Matters the worldwide trademark holder. The views opinions presented on this site do not represent the official views of the Joomla Project or of Open Source Matters."
  # The first prominent use of the Joomla name should include the trademark(™) or registered trademark (®) symbol.
  # The site logo or name must be larger than the badge or any other logo use.

  * All software distributed from the site complies with current Joomla Extensions Directory policies for distribution.
 
== FAQs ==
_すべてのJoomla翻訳チームは自身のWebサイトを持つ必要がありますか？_

いいえ。翻訳者は単にJoomlaの翻訳共通リポジトリにファイルを寄与することも可能です。

_営利企業もまたJoomla 翻訳チームとなることができますか？_

はい。しかし、営利企業はビジネスに関連してJoommla翻訳チームのバッジを使用できないし、チームリストにはそのサイトのURLが含まれないかもしれません。もし希望するなら、リストにはそのチームへのコンタクト用のメールアドレスが載るでしょう。

_営利企業は自身のWebサイトにJoomla翻訳チームのバッジを表示することができますか？_

いいえ。バッジは非営利のサイトにのみ表示できます。

_私は非営利のJoomla翻訳チームサイトのオーナーですが、私はまた、生活の資を得る必要があります。サイトの一部を私のビジネスに使うことができますか？_

いいえ。あなたはサイトをあなたのビジネスと切り離さなくてはいけません。が、あなたはJoomla翻訳チームのサイトにあなたのビジネスの広告を設置することはできます。もしあなたがフォーラムを持っているなら、あなた名義の営利サイトへのリンクを追加してください。

_Joomla翻訳チームのWebサイトに有料広告をおくことはできますか？_

はい。

_Joomla翻訳チームのWebサイトに私のビジネス・サイトの広告を設置することはできますか？_

はい。

_Joomla翻訳チームのWebサイトに私のビジネスへのメニューリンクを設置することができますか？_

いいえ。

_私は、forum.joomla.orgでの私のフォーラム署名において、自身を"Joomla翻訳者"と呼ぶことはできますか？_

Joomla翻訳チームのメンバーは以下の表現を使用できます：
"Member of the `[language]` Joomla Translation Team"
あなたはまたcommunity.orgに並ぶあなたのJoomla翻訳チームのURLを追加することが推奨されます：http://community.joomla.org/translations.html

_私はサイト用とアドミニストレータ用の翻訳を単一のパッケージとしてリリースするべきですか？_

必須ではありませんが、サイト用のアドミニストレータ用の単一のパッケージを作成することが、必要であればpdfのフォントも含めて、強く推奨されます。

_どこでJoomlaの翻訳のための技術的なガイドラインを見つけることができますか？_

技術的なガイドラインはここで入手可能です：http://docs.joomla.org/Technical_Guidelines_for_Translation

_Joomlaの翻訳を作成あるいは配布するためには、私はJoomla翻訳チームに参加しなくてはいけませんか？_

No. However, please note that all licensing, name use and other legal requirements apply whether or not your team is a Joomla Translation Team.

_Can the badge be used in printed materials?_

Yes, if the usage complies with the Open Source Matters conditional use policy rules for printed matter and the use is non-commercial.

_What is meant by "specific relevant resources in the translation language"?_

These are resources that provide useful information to users of the language in question.

If we take the Norwegian distribution as an example (http://demo.joomlainorge.no/ ), there are a few added links under t.ex. the Recourses menu (Resurser) to help the users finding locale info and translations. This is added to the localized sample_data.sql. The first link goes to the main site of the local community site, where news and information is posted - http://www.joomlainorge.no/ This site is non commercial and has received domain name and other approvals from Open Source Matters.

The second link goes to a subdomain, where all Norwegian language packs/files are hosted. These include both Joomla and Third-Party Developer files, some not available other places on the Web - http://filer.joomlainorge.no/

_Why must Language Packs be made available on joomlacode.org?_

Among other reasons, this will enable joomla.org to create a "Download Joomla in your Language" link that will be easy to use for users and easy access for webmasters who wish to create mutlilingual sites. As GNU GPL licensed code, Language Packs may also be made available on Joomla Translation Team and other sites.

_Why must copies of help screens and sample data be deposited in the Joomla Translation Common Repository on joomlacode.org?_

It is important for continuity and assurance of availability for users who depend upon these resources that copies of team work be stored in a central common repository.

_Why are teams strongly encouraged to make sample data and help files available for public download?_

Freedom, equality and collaboration are core values of the Joomla Project. One expression of these values is the use of the GNU GPL for licensing. Although the GNU GPL and the JEDL do not require distribution, they strongly value providing users with the ability to use, modify, study and share. They also do not distinguish between classes of users. All Joomla Translation Team members are encouraged to learn more about software freedom. Translators in this sense are encouraged to work under the same principles as developers and documentors who are part of the Joomla Project.

_Why does it say that the policy may be changed?_

Situations and needs of the Project and its community have changed in the past and will change in the future. As a result the Translation Policy, like all Project policies, may need to change. This statement ensures that notification is given to the entire community if the policy needs to change.

_What is the process for making changes in policies?_

The Joomla Project makes policies based on discussions with community members, Working Group members, team leads and coordinators, the Core Team, and the board of Open Source Matters as well as on the basis of legal and financial advice. Final policy decisions are made by the Core Team or the OSM board as appropriate.

== Typical File Headers ==
See http://community.joomla.org/translations/typical-language-file-headers.html

 
== Definitions ==
A translator is a translation team or individual that translates Joomla.

A translation team is an individual or group which creates or maintains Joomla translations in a specific language.

A Joomla Translation Team is a translation team that is represented in the Joomla Private Translation Forum.

A Local Translation Coordinator is the representative of a Joomla Translation Team who participates in the Joomla Translation Team forum.

A localized distribution is a distribution of Joomla that is preinstalled with a specific language package. It also may include sample content in that language and a link to online help in that language.

The Joomla Translation Coordination Team manages the Joomla Translation Repository and the Joomla Translation Team Forum and coordinates translation related communication with other parts of the Joomla Project. It is a small group drawn from the Local Translation Coordinators.

A Joomla translation team badge is an image file that may be used to identify a Joomla Translation Team if certain conditions are met.

The Joomla Translation Teams Agreement defines the terms and conditions for acceptance as a Joomla Translation Team.

A Joomla Translation Team web site is a site that distributes the work of a specific Joomla Translation Team (either exclusively or along with providing other information or services).

The Joomla Translation Common Repository is the area on Joomlacode.org where Joomla Translation Teams deposit their work. It is managed by the Joomla Translation Coordination Team.

The Joomla Translation Team Forum is a limited-access forum located on http://forum.joomla.org for use of Local Translation Coordinators.